# UPF

The primary role of UPF in 5G system is to provide interconnetion towards the external data network. Data network can be Internet, IMS, enterprise system etc. On any cases, we need UPF to provide connectivity between 5G network and data network. 5G technology is itself a mobile technology which means that the mobile device will keep moving around. In such cases, we need one anchor point to provide a fixed connectivity towards the data network. This is called mobility anchor and UPF provides the functionality as the mobility anchor. For example if a device moves, it will connect to many gNB's, the data network was not able to see that mobile is moving. It will always route the IP traffic to the UPS and then the 5G system takes care of routing the data from the particular UPF to wherever the devices. The functionality of UPF as a mobility anchor toward the external network is fulfilled. Since all the data from the particular data network comes to UPF, it also an ideal spot for measuring the traffic usage and providing charging related information to the charging system. So it can measure exactly the MB and GB of a data that is consumed by a certain device. Suppose, if a device is in idle mode and the the downlink data is scheduled for the device, then in order to make sure the data is not lost the UPF also have a buffering for functionality. It will buffered the downlink information until the device is ready to receive the information after waking up from the idle mode. In addition, the UPF is also responsible for quality of service marking. In external data network we don't know is there any particular quality of service differentiation, but once the data enters in 5G system then we have a different mechanism to provide different quality of service. In the flow, the first step is with the UPF. So the UPF looks at the different data and assign them a different quality of service identifier so that the different application with different quality of service identifiers can be treated differently going forward in the network.

Here we can see there are two serial UPF. So UPF have a mechanism to forward certain kind of packet to more central UPF or in other words it might, re-route the traffic already in the earlier part of a core network. This can be used for treating different type of traffic through the different UPF's. 
